.TH delmany 1 "January 2017" Moray "Moray Client Tools"
.SH NAME
.PP
delmany \- delete multiple objects using a filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCdelmany [COMMON_OPTIONS] [\-l LIMIT] [\-o OFFSET] BUCKET FILTER\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Deletes objects from bucket \fB\fCBUCKET\fR whose properties match the filter \fB\fCFILTER\fR\&.
Like \fB\fCfindobjects\fR, \fB\fCdelmany\fR operations are always bounded in size.  See the
\fB\fC\-l LIMIT\fR option.  You must use multiple invocations to remove arbitrarily
large lists of objects.
.PP
\fB\fCFILTER\fR is an LDAP\-like filter string described in \fB\fCfindobjects(1)\fR\&.  The
caveats described there around the use of unindexed fields apply to filters used
with \fB\fCdelmany\fR as well.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-l LIMIT\fR
Remove at most \fB\fCLIMIT\fR objects.  This interacts badly with filters on
unindexed fields, as described in \fB\fCfindobjects(1)\fR\&.  If this option is
unspecified, a default limit is provided (which is currently 1000).
.TP
\fB\fC\-o OFFSET\fR
Skip the first \fB\fCOFFSET\fR objects matching the filter.
.PP
See \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR for information about the \fB\fCCOMMON_OPTIONS\fR, which control
the log verbosity and how to locate the remote server.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
See \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR for information about the \fB\fCLOG_LEVEL\fR, \fB\fCMORAY_SERVICE\fR, and
\fB\fCMORAY_URL\fR environment variables.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Delete all objects in bucket "accounts" having a "uid" value at most 800:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ delmany accounts '(uid<=800)'
2 records deleted
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fB\fCmoray(1)\fR, \fB\fCputbucket(1)\fR, \fB\fCputobject(1)\fR, \fB\fCfindobjects(1)\fR
