.TH putbucket 1 "January 2017" Moray "Moray Client Tools"
.SH NAME
.PP
putbucket \- create or update a bucket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCputbucket [COMMON_OPTIONS] [\-st] [\-i FIELD[:TYPE]...] [\-u FIELD[:TYPE]...] [\-x VERSION] BUCKET\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Creates or updates a bucket in Moray called \fB\fCBUCKET\fR\&.  If the bucket does not
exist, it is created.  If the bucket already exists and has a version, the
bucket will only be updated if \fB\fC\-x\fR is specified and \fB\fCVERSION\fR is greater than
the version of the bucket on the server.
.PP
A bucket's configuration includes:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
a list of field names (also referred to as a \fBschema\fP) that describes the
top\-level properties for which database indexes should be created.  These
indexes enable querying and manipulation using filters accepted by the
\fB\fCfindobjects\fR, \fB\fCupdatemany\fR, and \fB\fCdelmany\fR tools.
.IP \(bu 2
an optional version number, which is used to coordinate schema updates among
multiple clients having different versions.
.IP \(bu 2
a set of options defined by the server.  The only option supported by this
tool is \fB\fCtrackModification\fR\&.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCpre\fR and \fB\fCpost\fR triggers, which are functions executed on the Moray server
.RE
.PP
Users may specify the bucket configuration using a combination of the \fB\fC\-i\fR,
\fB\fC\-u\fR, \fB\fC\-x\fR, or \fB\fC\-t\fR options, or using the \fB\fC\-s\fR option and providing a JSON
description on stdin.  The \fB\fC\-s\fR option must be used for specifying \fB\fCpre\fR and
\fB\fCpost\fR triggers.
.PP
When you use \fB\fCputbucket(1)\fR to add a new indexed field, that field will not be
treated as indexed (in filters with \fB\fCfindobjects\fR and similar tools) until all
objects in the bucket have been reindexed.  See \fB\fCreindexobjects(1)\fR\&.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-i FIELD[:TYPE]\fR
Adds an index on the top\-level property called \fB\fCFIELD\fR\&.  \fB\fCFIELD\fR can
subsequently be used in filters for \fB\fCfindobjects\fR, \fB\fCupdatemany\fR, and
\fB\fCdelmany\fR operations.  The optional \fB\fCTYPE\fR is interpreted by the server.
.TP
\fB\fC\-s\fR
Read the bucket's configuration from stdin rather than the other
command\-line options.  Other bucket\-related command\-line options are
ignored.
.TP
\fB\fC\-t\fR
Enable the \fB\fCtrackModification\fR server\-side option for this bucket.
.TP
\fB\fC\-u FIELD[:TYPE]\fR
Adds an index just like the \fB\fC[\-i]\fR option, but additionally require that
values of field \fB\fCFIELD\fR must be unique within the bucket.  Attempting to
insert a second object having the same value of \fB\fCFIELD\fR as another object in
the bucket will fail.  This constraint is maintained by the underlying data
store.
.TP
\fB\fC\-x VERSION\fR
Only create or update the bucket if it does not already exist on the server,
or if it exists with no version number, or if it exists with a version
number that's older than \fB\fCVERSION\fR\&.  The new \fB\fCVERSION\fR is stored with the
bucket configuration.
.PP
See \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR for information about the \fB\fCCOMMON_OPTIONS\fR, which control
the log verbosity and how to locate the remote server.
.PP
The JSON read from stdin may have the following properties:
.TP
\fB\fCindexes\fR
an object whose properties identify each of the indexed fields.  Each value
is an object with properties \fB\fCtype\fR (a string) and \fB\fCunique\fR (a boolean).
.TP
\fB\fCoptions\fR
an object describing options interpreted by the server.  This may include
the \fB\fCtrackModification\fR option, which should be a boolean value.
.TP
\fB\fCpost\fR, \fB\fCpre\fR
arrays of strings containing JavaScript functions to be executed before
(\fB\fCpre\fR) or after (\fB\fCpost\fR) various operations.  See server documentation for
details.  The strings themselves are evaluated in the context of this tool.
.TP
\fB\fCversion\fR
an integer version number, as would be specified with \fB\fC\-x\fR
.PP
Default values are provided that correspond to this configuration:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{
    "indexes": {},
    "options": {},
    "pre": [],
    "post": []
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
By default, the bucket is not versioned.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
See \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR for information about the \fB\fCLOG_LEVEL\fR, \fB\fCMORAY_SERVICE\fR, and
\fB\fCMORAY_URL\fR environment variables.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Create a bucket at version 1 called "accounts" with no indexed fields:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ putbucket \-x 1 accounts
.fi
.RE
.PP
This bucket can be used as a key\-value store, but would not support
\fB\fCfindobjects\fR or other operations that operate on indexed fields.
.PP
Create a bucket called "accounts" with a unique "loginName" field and an
indexed "fullName" field:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ putbucket \-x 1 \-u loginName \-i fullName accounts
.fi
.RE
.PP
Create the same bucket with version number "3":
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ putbucket \-x 3 \-u loginName \-i fullName accounts
.fi
.RE
.PP
Attempt to create the same bucket with an older version:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ putbucket \-x 2 \-u loginName \-i fullName accounts
putbucket: moray client ("172.27.10.72:65434" to "172.27.10.40:2022"): request failed: server error: accounts has a newer version than 2 (3)
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fB\fCmoray(1)\fR, \fB\fCreindexobjects(1)\fR
.SH BUGS
.PP
The JSON format is not validated on the client side.  Future versions of this
tool may validate input on the client.
