.TH putobject 1 "January 2017" Moray "Moray Client Tools"
.SH NAME
.PP
putobject \- create or update an object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCputobject [COMMON_OPTIONS] [\-d DATA] [\-e ETAG] BUCKET KEY\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Creates or updates an object in bucket \fB\fCBUCKET\fR with primary key \fB\fCKEY\fR\&.  If no
object exists having the same key, a new object is created.  If the object
exists (and if its etag matches \fB\fCETAG\fR, if \fB\fC\-e\fR was specified), then the old
object is overwritten and atomically replaced with the new one.  The object's
contents are specified by the JSON string \fB\fCDATA\fR\&.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-d DATA\fR
Specifies the contents of the object as a JSON string.  Generally, objects
should conform to a user\-defined schema, having a fixed set of properties
and types.  However, there are no constraints imposed by the server other
than uniqueness for fields that are specifically marked unique in the bucket
configuration.  Top\-level properties of the object that correspond to
indexed fields will be extracted and included in an index so that it can be
queried and updated.  See \fB\fCputbucket(1)\fR for details.
.TP
\fB\fC\-e ETAG\fR
Only execute this operation if the corresponding object on the server
currently has etag \fB\fCETAG\fR\&.  Etags are computed on the server based on
object contents, and they are included in the results of any object fetch
operation.  This option can be used to implement optimistic concurrency
control (as a form of test\-and\-set operation).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
See \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR for information about the \fB\fCLOG_LEVEL\fR, \fB\fCMORAY_SERVICE\fR, and
\fB\fCMORAY_URL\fR environment variables.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Inserts or updates an object with key "lisa" in bucket "accounts":
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ putobject \-d '{ "loginName": "lisa", "uid": "800", "country": "USA" }' \\
    accounts lisa
.fi
.RE
.PP
See also the examples in \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR\&.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fB\fCmoray(1)\fR, \fB\fCputbucket(1)\fR
