.TH sql 1 "January 2017" Moray "Moray Client Tools"
.SH NAME
.PP
sql \- check of a Moray server is functioning
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCsql [COMMON_OPTIONS] SQL\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Executes a raw SQL command \fB\fCSQL\fR against Moray's backing data store.  This is
intended for experienced operators and developers to run ad hoc queries (usually
read\-only).  A mistake in the \fB\fCSQL\fR string can cause all manner of bad behavior,
including database deadlock, data corruption, and data loss.  This tool and
Moray perform almost no validation on the input string.
.PP
This should not be used as part of normal operation.  Normal operations should
be first\-classed as specific Moray requests with associated tools.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
See \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR for information about the \fB\fCCOMMON_OPTIONS\fR, which control
the log verbosity and how to locate the remote server.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
See \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR for information about the \fB\fCLOG_LEVEL\fR, \fB\fCMORAY_SERVICE\fR, and
\fB\fCMORAY_URL\fR environment variables.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Run a simple SQL \fB\fCSELECT\fR query for the current time:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sql 'SELECT NOW()'
{
  "now": "2017\-01\-27T17:12:42.651Z"
}
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fB\fCmoray(1)\fR
.SH BUGS
.PP
Moray removes newlines from all SQL commands that it executes, including those
specified with this command.  The results can be surprising.  This most commonly
affects SQL "\-\-" comments, which run to the end of the line.  Since newlines are
stripped, everything after the first opening "\-\-" gets commented out.
