.TH updatemany 1 "January 2017" Moray "Moray Client Tools"
.SH NAME
.PP
updatemany \- update multiple objects using a filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCupdatemany [COMMON_OPTIONS] [\-d DATA] [\-l LIMIT] BUCKET FILTER\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Updates objects from bucket \fB\fCBUCKET\fR whose properties match the filter \fB\fCFILTER\fR\&.
\fB\fCDATA\fR is a JSON object describing what to update.  Properties of \fB\fCDATA\fR must be
indexed fields.  For each matching row, the fields specified in \fB\fCDATA\fR will be
updated to their corresponding values in \fB\fCDATA\fR\&.  Other fields are unchanged.
.PP
Like \fB\fCfindobjects\fR, \fB\fCupdatemany\fR operations are always bounded in size.  See the
\fB\fC\-l LIMIT\fR option.  You must use multiple invocations to update arbitrarily
large lists of objects.
.PP
\fB\fCFILTER\fR is an LDAP\-like filter string described in \fB\fCfindobjects(1)\fR\&.  The
caveats described there around the use of unindexed fields apply to filters used
with \fB\fCupdatemany\fR as well.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-d DATA\fR
Specifies the fields to update in each matching object.
.TP
\fB\fC\-l LIMIT\fR
Remove at most \fB\fCLIMIT\fR objects.  This interacts badly with filters on
unindexed fields, as described in \fB\fCfindobjects(1)\fR\&.  If this option is
unspecified, a default limit is provided (which is currently 1000).
.PP
See \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR for information about the \fB\fCCOMMON_OPTIONS\fR, which control
the log verbosity and how to locate the remote server.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
See \fB\fCmoray(1)\fR for information about the \fB\fCLOG_LEVEL\fR, \fB\fCMORAY_SERVICE\fR, and
\fB\fCMORAY_URL\fR environment variables.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Update objects in bucket "accounts" having a value of "country" equal to "UK"
so that the "country" is now "United Kingdom":
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ updatemany \-d '{ "country": "United Kingdom" }' accounts '(country=UK)'
{ count: 1, etag: 'ue6d321d' }
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fB\fCmoray(1)\fR, \fB\fCputbucket(1)\fR, \fB\fCputobject(1)\fR, \fB\fCfindobjects(1)\fR
